---
title: "Why should I care about the Grace Hopper Celebration (GHC)?"
date: 2023-01-18T20:05:00+00:00
draft: true
author: "Kari"
tags:
  - GHC
  - Conferences
image: 
description: "Why does the Grace Hopper Celebration get so much revelation? Join me as I discuss my experience as an attendee in 2022, and incoming scholarship coordinator."
toc: 
---
As young individuals venturing into tech, it is easy to be overwhelmed with the sheer amount of opportunities available — especially if you are surrounded by similarly talented folks, and even more so if you identify as a minority in your chosen industry. From becoming a teaching assistant to completing on-campus research, joining extracurriculars, wait I should also be working on personal projects, seeking internships, practicing for those internship interviews, maintaining my grades, and being a self-sufficient young adult… now you’re saying I have to find five days to step away from all of my other responsibilities and life as I know it, hop on a plane or into a car, head to _somewhere_, and figure out how I’m gonna afford food and housing and a ticket for a conference I heard about 4 months ago? What am I getting myself into? Is it really worth it? Why does the Grace Hopper Celebration get so much revelation?

The Grace Hopper Celebration, more commonly known as GHC and often misnamed as the Grace Hopper Conference, is the largest gathering of female and non-binary technologists in the world. The last fully in-person conference in 2019 had 25,000 individuals from across the world head to Orlando, FL — exploring the future of technology with like-minded individuals. Whilst numbers for the 2022 attendee cohort have yet to be published, the conference was the largest ever organized by the parent organization, AnitaB.org, and was organized in a hybrid format – allowing attendees from all around the world to experience its charm. The celebration is attended by a wide variety of folks from undergraduate students to C-suite professionals and start-up leaders — although a growing number of attendees are students each year. Offering everything a true celebration of technology represents — a massive expo hall with sponsors, book signings, lightning talks, technical workshops, networking sessions, wellness breaks, new tech expositions, main stage speakers, and candid interactions — the conference is a conglomeration of everything that defines the growing technology space.

As a measly 20-year old looking to find a new internship opportunity for Summer 2023, hoping to learn about what truly makes a technologist celebration, and hoping to explore a new location, I packed my bags on a very early Tuesday morning in September and headed to Orlando, Florida for the very first time. Walking into the massive Orange County Convention Center to check-in directly after my flight, I wheeled around my suitcase whilst taking in the sights around me. The center was filled with branding for the celebration — banners citing Next is Now being seen from seemingly every possible crevice of the huge space, and a myriad of rooms and spaces meticulously put together by the event staff. The space was large, and often difficult to navigate — heading from location to location did make me very late to an interview. Budget your time accordingly, friends — but don’t be afraid to make the most of all of the opportunities. That being said, event staff was always helpful, although naturally sometimes confused themselves, and I managed to get to where I needed to be every time — and when I was late, it was on me.

Putting together an event like the Grace Hopper Celebration is no easy feat, and despite the massive space, solitude was hard to come by. Technologists sat on floors to connect to outlets, with headsets to complete digital only interviews in the crowded space, and got lost in multiple garages trying to find an event bus — personally, all three of these happened on a Thursday, which was a welcome change from attending Algorithms (sorry, Dr. Johnson). Scheduled events also frequently got to over room capacity, and those which were running throughout the day often had long lines. Having GHC be my first non-university “conference” meant I was woefully unprepared for the sheer amount of things to do in a given moment, and the amount of queues I was going to face. That being said, those queues are responsible for some of my most memorable moments at the conference — my initial interview with my upcoming internship, and my most memorable interaction both came as a result of workshop events I sought to attend being over capacity, and a last-minute decision to head to a place and try something new. A 45 minute conversation with a C-suite executive, a Google middle manager, a Disney entry-level employee, and a Carnegie Mellon graduate student gave me insight to the world of technology, the differences in careers, and what I was truly looking for in the world.

These experiences define the importance of diversity, and the value of it in the world of technology. They would be unheard of in a non-diversity event.

This is why I think GHC has become so important — it serves as a resource allowing for contacts like these to happen, which is more and more important as the way in which we live and work continues to change. It is why I think every technologist should attend the conference at least once — to feel the energy.

The charm of the Grace Hopper Celebration is in its grandiose and its messaging, and being prepared for it is an important aspect of attendance. Spending my own resources on attending the conference, especially when tickets are both expensive and hard to come by, helped me trudge through long days –with 5 interviews in a row, a workshop in the morning, time set aside to explore the career expo, and a company dinner as a cherry on top — where I proceeded to get drenched in the classic Florida rain to end the evening. Nonetheless, the conference is a huge opportunity if you try to harness its potential to the fullest — my fellow attendees who approached it with a similar mindset were all thrilled with their experiences.

If your goals as a student are to gain potential career opportunities, I could not recommend the conference enough — but come prepared for the long hours, and stay ahead on your other responsibilities. Life outside of GHC didn’t stop, and catching up was tough. Make sure you prepare printed copies of your resume, and a copy of it digitally that you can easily pull when asked for an upload on a phone and computer. The workshops, networking sessions, and invite-only events I got to attend were furthermore a fantastic perk–exploring Hogwarts after hours will remain one of my most memorable experiences — but the opportunities after the conference solidified my stance on the experience being entirely worth it.

With a hefty price tag, I now dedicate my remaining time at my University to ensuring those who have less financial means have the opportunity to attend. My suggestions for those looking to attend the conference include seeking support from your University — many have, or previously had, scholarship funds dedicated to the conference. With companies further sponsoring both employees and external scholars, applying to scholarship funds is a great opportunity to seek additional aid. AnitaB.org also offers attendee scholarships, while also covering the cost of tickets for those who are selected as speakers, or agree to volunteer eight hours of their times to be Hoppers (event day-of staff). Whilst competitive, the opportunities to limit the barriers to entry are there — and many, like myself, are dedicated to help them grow.
